Web presence From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
A web presence is a location on the World Wide Web where a person, business, or some other entity is
represented (see also web property and point of presence).
Examples of a web presence for a person could be a personal website, a blog, a profile page, a wiki page, or a
social media point of presence (e.g. a LinkedIn profile, a Facebook account, or a Twitter account). Examples of
a web presence for a business or some other entity could be a corporate website, a microsite, a page on a review
site, a wiki page, or a social media point of presence (e.g., a LinkedIn company page and/or group, a Facebook
business/brand/product page, or a Twitter account).
Every web presence is associated with a unique web address to distinguish one point of presence from another.
Contents
1 Owned vs. unowned web presence
2 Web presence management
2.1 Web presence management system
2.2 Domain names
3 Web presence discovery
3.1 Brand protection
3.2 Security
3.3 Distributed inventory management
4 Web presence monitoring
4.1 Corporate, brand, and regulatory compliance
5 Web presence audit
5.1 Social media audit
6 Web presence management vs. web reputation management
7 See also
8 References
Owned vs. unowned web presence
Web presence can either be owned or unowned. Owned media exists when a single person or group can control
the content that is published on its web presence (e.g. a corporate website or a personal Twitter account).
However, when a single person or group cannot solely control the content, the creator is different from the
owner. This is considered unowned media (see earned media). A Wikipedia or Yelp page about a person,
company, or product would be an example of an unowned (or "earned") web presence.
Occasionally, a third form of media known as "paid media" is often included in the discussion of media types:
"earned vs. owned vs. paid". Paid media is commonly found in the form of advertisements, but it is not
considered a form of web presence.
Web presence - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_presence
1 of 6 2/16/2016 8:25 PM
Web presence management
Web presence management is the process of establishing and maintaining a digital footprint on the web. The
three factors that are considered include the following: where a person or business has web presence; how each
web presence represents its enterprise; and what is published at a point of presence.
Web presence management is the discipline of determining and governing:
the distribution of policy documents
which platforms are most appropriate (e.g. internal vs. external blog, YouTube vs. Vimeo)
the single inventory of personal or corporate web presence (e.g. partners or advocates)
where on the web a business and any relatable assets are represented
where on the web a business and any relatable assets are impersonated or pirated
web properties with the particular entities they represent
who has control over which web properties
new web properties which are not in the personal or corporate inventory (e.g. someone creates a new
presence)
authorized and unauthorized changes to the creation (e.g. branding) of a web presence
a workflow for creating a web property that follows its corporate standards
Web presence management system
The purpose of a web presence management system is to manage the web presence of a person or business. This
includes the collection of domain names, websites, social media, and other web pages where he, she, or it is
being represented. The tool generally offers the following key functions: new presence discovery, inventory
management, change detection, access control, stakeholder coordination, and compliance workflow.
A web presence management system is meant to have a broader reach so that it emphasizes where a presence
has been established, will be established, must be maintained, or must be remediated. An example of a web
presence management system is the Brandle Presence Manager.[1]
In order to publish content to the various points of web presence, multiple content management systems and
sometimes even social media management systems are often used. The primary focus of most content and social
media management systems is limited to their specific web platforms.
Domain names
Another aspect of web presence management is managing the collection of domain names registered to the
person or business. Any entity may register multiple domain names for the same property. As a result, they can
link alternative spellings, different top-level domains, aliases, brands, or products to the same website.
Similarly, negative or derogatory domain names may also be registered. This is done to prevent certain domain
names from being used against the person or business.
It is common for a larger business to have domain names registered by multiple employees at multiple domain
name registrars, possibly a result of organizational or geographical requirements. Consequently, a web presence
management system can be used to monitor all domain names registered by the business, regardless of the
registrars used.
Web presence - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_presence
2 of 6 2/16/2016 8:25 PM
Web presence discovery
Web presence discovery is the process of monitoring the web for a new point of presence about a person or
business. Web presence discovery is often included in a web presence management system. Whether a new
domain is registered, a new website is published, or a new social media account is established, it occurs outside
of the person’s or business’ control. As a result, its purpose is to assess a new point of presence and
appropriately handle any violations.
It is important to note that web presence discovery differs from content listening. The former involves looking
for new properties on the web, whereas the latter refers to analyzing content that already exists to hear how a
person or business is seen often in near real time. Examples of content listening systems include Sysomos and
Radian6, which is now a subsidiary of Salesforce.com.
Brand protection
A person or business may choose to watch for a new web presence that might appear to misrepresent or mislead
an audience, such as counterfeiters, spoofers, or malicious hackers. One of the early softwares in the online
brand protection marketplace was MarkMonitor, now part of Thomson Reuters. This software helped detect
rogue domain names and websites.
However, the modern day growth of social media has seen a rise in the number of fraudulent brand
impersonations. It has become much easier for a new web presence to be created on those platforms, which
results in a greater frequency of them today.[2][3][4][5][6] As a preventative measure, online brand protection
providers are now adding social media to their domain and website discovery options.
Security
The widespread growth of social media has also made it easier for unauthorized individuals to impersonate an
employee. Consequently, social media has now become a recognized threat vector in that it can be used to
socially engineer an attack on a business.[7][8] To counter this, companies are able to use web presence
monitoring tools to detect new points of presence on the web and thereby defend against socially engineered
attacks.[4][9][10][11][12]
Distributed inventory management
A web presence monitoring system can be used by a business to associate a new web property with its corporate
inventory. It is designed to address autonomous, distributed behaviors. This usually applies to larger businesses
whose geographically diverse employees are more prone to creating new points of presence on the web. For
example, a retail chain may allow each local store to create and manage their web presence to market to and
communicate with their local customer base.[13] Similarly, a global business may have teams in each country or
region who create and manage a web presence to adapt to local languages or cultures.
Web presence monitoring
Web presence monitoring is the process of monitoring a known inventory of web presence to detect any changes
that are made. Web presence monitoring is often included in a web presence management system and can serve
multiple purposes for both larger corporations and certain individuals, such as celebrities.
Web presence - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_presence
3 of 6 2/16/2016 8:25 PM
It is important to note that presence monitoring differs from content listening. The former involves monitoring
the properties (e.g. branding) of a web property in an established inventory, whereas the latter refers to
analyzing content that already exists to hear how a person or business is seen often in near real time.[14]
Additionally, presence monitoring focuses on owned media and content listening on earned media.
Corporate, brand, and regulatory compliance
Many companies ensure that certain standards are met for a property on the web that represents their business.
For companies in regulated industries, such as finance and healthcare, the company may be required by law to
ensure that all publicized content, regardless of platform or technology, follow specific requirements.[15][16][17]
The widespread growth of social media has seen a rise in the number of fraudulent corporate impersonations. It
has become much easier for a new web presence to be created on these platforms, and so these are much more
prevalent than they used to be.[18] As a preventative measure, a web presence monitoring system alerts the
company when a known property is changed, allowing for the property to be reviewed and amended so that it
follows the proper standards. .[18] A web presence monitoring system helps alert the company when a known
property is changed, so it can be reviewed and brought back, if necessary, into compliance with the appropriate
standards.
Web presence audit
A web presence audit is performed by an enterprise to determine that all points of presence on the web meet
the objectives as well as governance, risk management, and compliance (GRC) needs. To ensure neutrality,
these audits are often conducted as part of an information technology audit by a professional services agency or
an internal audit team. However, a less formal web presence audit is often performed by internal members as a
routine to meet GRC objectives.
A web presence audit usually includes web presence discovery and a review of all web-based content in the
business’ inventory of web presence. Even though web presence monitoring is not performed in a web presence
audit, a review of the nature and scope of the company's web presence monitoring policies, procedures, and
tools is considered.
Social media audit
Due to the emerging challenges introduced by the dynamic nature of social media, a business may choose to
perform specific social media audits in greater frequency.[19][20] A social media audit is similar to a web
presence audit, but may also include the purposes of maintaining an accurate inventory of all business social
media points of presence. Alternatively, the business may choose to employ automated web presence discovery
and compliance systems to keep the corporate social media inventory up-to-date and compliant with GRC
needs.
Web presence management vs. web reputation management
Reputation management systems are often associated with web presence management. Web presence
management is knowing where an individual or business is represented, whereas reputation management is
knowing what people are saying about an individual or business. Web presence management handles owned
media, while reputation management systems with earned media.
Web presence - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_presence
4 of 6 2/16/2016 8:25 PM
Both systems offer some similar degree of remediation. For web presence management systems, remediation
would include finding counterfeit properties that infringe on a brand or trademark. For reputation management
systems, remediation would include identifying and eliminating misleading reviews and/or encouraging the
contribution of authentic comments.
Even though a web presence monitoring tool can help identify unowned web properties where people are
talking about a person, product, or brand, it is only part of the solution. A reputation management system often
includes a content listening system to monitor the stream of messages about a particular subject which may be
coming from any point of presence on the web (e.g. a comment about a product by a customer on her personal
Twitter account). An example of a reputation management service is Reputation.com.[21]
See also
Digital footprint
Domain name
Domain name system
Earned vs. Owned vs. Paid
media
Internet presence
management
Microsite
Online identity management
Online presence management
Online reputation
management
Web Point of presence
Social media
Social media measurement
Social networking service
Web address
Web page
Web property
Website
References
Roberson, Chip. "Social Content vs. Social Presence -
Don't neglect your social footprint" . Brandle, Inc.
Retrieved 12 August 2015.
1.
"Reputation@Risk - 2014 global survey on reputation
risk" (PDF). Deloitte. Deloitte. Retrieved
12 August 2015.
2.
"Global Risk Management Survey 2015" . AON.
AON. Retrieved 12 August 2015.
3.
"17th Annual Global CEO Survey" . PwC. PwC.
Retrieved 12 August 2015.
4.
http://www.ey.com/US/en/Issues/Governanceand-
reporting/Audit-Committee/BoardMatters-
Quarterly---April-2014---4---The-businessof-
social-media
5.
"Board Matters Quarterly - Critical insights for
today’s audit committee" (PDF). Ernst & Young
LLP. Retrieved 12 August 2015.
6.
Hinkley, Chris. "Social Media Makes Way for Social
Engineering" . SecurityWeek. Wired Business
Media. Retrieved 12 August 2015.
7.
Bradley, Tony. "Think twice before you accept that
'friend' request" . CSO. CXO Media, Inc. Retrieved
12 August 2015.
8.
Foster, James. "A CISO's Nightmare: Digital Social
Engineering" . SecurityWeek. Wired Business
Media. Retrieved 12 August 2015.
9.
"Global Risk Management Survey 2015" . AON.
AON. Retrieved 12 August 2015.
10.
"Security for social networking" (PDF). PwC.
PwC. Retrieved 12 August 2015.
11.
Andreesen, Tom; Slemp, Cal. "Managing Risk in a
Social Media-Driven Society" (PDF). Protiviti.
Protiviti, Inc. Retrieved 12 August 2015.
12.
Roberson, Chip. "Social Media for the Retail Industry
- Going Local and Liking It!" . Brandle. Brandle,
Inc. Retrieved 12 August 2015.
13.
"2015 Survey of Bank Compliance Officers" .
ABA. American Bankers Association. Retrieved
12 August 2015.
14.
"Social Media: Consumer Compliance Risk
Management Guidance" (PDF). FDIC. FFIEC.
Retrieved 12 August 2015.
15.
"Social Media Compliance Isn’t Fun, But It’s
Necessary" . Harvard Business Review. Harvard
Business School Publishing. Retrieved 12 August
2015.
16.
"Regulatory Notice 10-06" . FINRA. FINRA.
Retrieved 12 August 2015.
17.
Church, Janet; Roberson, Chip. "Social Media Risks
and Rewards" . Scotsman Guide. Scotsman Guide
Media. Retrieved 12 August 2015.
18.
Juergens, Michael. "Social Media Risks Create an
Expanded Role for Internal Audit" . Wall Street
Journal. Retrieved 10 August 2015.
19.
Web presence - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_presence
5 of 6 2/16/2016 8:25 PM
Dowie, Jon. "EMERGING TECHNOLOGY RISKS -
Social Media - Internal Audit’s response" (PDF).
KPMG. Retrieved 10 August 2015.
20. "Reputation.com" . Reputation.com. Retrieved
19 October 2015.
21.
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Web_presence&oldid=704768391"
Categories: Marketing Internet marketing Social media Corporate governance Risk management
Information technology audit Business software
This page was last modified on 13 February 2016, at 13:42.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may
apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered
trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Web presence - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_presence
6 of 6 2/16/2016 8:25 PM